## AuraShort × Url Shortener Server

AuraShort is a simple Url Shortener written in Go using a Mongo database. It can short urls of any length and
complexity. In order to run this server you have to install a mongo database and go 1.15, currently only **local** mongo
databases are supported, which will change in the future

### Setup

#### Using Git

1) Clone the repository to your local machine using `git clone https://github.com/Auralax/AuraShort.git`

2) Import the project into your favourite IDE, I prefer GoLang

3) When you want to build the application use the `build.sh` file

#### Using Releases

1) Download the zip containing the executable from the `releases` tab. The file's name is `version_aurashort.zip`,
   where `version` is replaced by the version

2) Extract the zip into a folder on your server or local machine

#### General Setup

3) Copy the `.env.example` file and rename it to `.env`

4) Change the data in the `.env` file to your data. It has the following fields:
    - `MONGODB_HOST` The host of the MongoDB database
    - `MONGODB_PORT` The port of the MongoDB database
    - `SERVER_PORT` The port on which the server will run
    - `LENGTH_OF_LINKS` The length of links generated by the shortener
    - `CUSTOM_LINKS_ENABLED` If custom, non-random, links are allowed

5) Execute `startserver.sh` to start the server

#### REST Api

1) `yourdomain:port/create` is used to generate a new short url. It returns a Json Response containing the following
   contents:
    - `Id` The id and the short url itself
    - `Redirect` The url to redirect to
    - `Uses` The amount of uses this short url has

   You have to add the following fields to the header of your POST request

    - `Redirect` The url to short

2) `yourdomain:port/custom` is used to generate a new custom url. This can be disabled/enabled in the `.env` file. The
   following header fields have to be added to the POST request
    - `Redirect` The url to short
    - `Custom` The custom short url

   It returns the same Json response as `/create`

3) `yourdomain:port/{id}` is used to use a short url. It redirects your to the url that has been shortened, where id is
   the id of the short url. For example `yourdomain:port/awWdwfaG` will redirect you to `https://google.com`. `awWdwfaG`
   is the id in this example